webext permissions: activeTab and menu for a subframe (#27219)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/manifest.json/permissions/index.md

- [XMLHttpRequest](/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest) and [fetch](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) access to those origins without cross-origin restrictions (even for requests made from content scripts)
- the ability to read tab-specific metadata without the "tabs" permission, such as the `url`, `title`, and `favIconUrl` properties of {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs.Tab")}} objects
- the ability to inject scripts and styles programmatically into pages served from those origins

>   -  using {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS()")}} when combined with the `scripting` permission (in Chrome mv3 only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - using {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS()")}} when combined with the `scripting` permission (in Chrome Manifest V3 only.)
```

>   -  using {{webextAPIref("tabs/executeScript", "tabs.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("tabs/insertCSS", "tabs.insertCss()")}} (mv2 only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - using {{webextAPIref("tabs/executeScript", "tabs.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("tabs/insertCSS", "tabs.insertCss()")}}. (Manifest V2 only)
```

Author: Is it OK to insert full stop if the middle of an item without capitalizing first letter and without adding another dot at the end? I am unsure concerning proper punctuation. Should not all list items be rewritten using complete sentences?

The extra privileges are:

- The ability to inject JavaScript or CSS into the tab programmatically

>   -  using {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS()")}} when combined with the `scripting` permission (in Chrome mv3 only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - using {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS()")}} when combined with the `scripting` permission (in Chrome Manifest V3 only.)
```

>   -  using {{webextAPIref("tabs/executeScript", "tabs.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("tabs/insertCSS", "tabs.insertCss()")}} (mv2 only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - using {{webextAPIref("tabs/executeScript", "tabs.executeScript()")}} and {{webextAPIref("tabs/insertCSS", "tabs.insertCss()")}}. (Manifest V2 only)
```

> **Note:** You can only get access to the tab/data that was there, when the user interaction occurred (e.g. the click). When the active tab navigates away (e.g., due to finishing loading or some other event), the permission does not grant you access to the tab anymore.

> You may face limitations of the `activeTab` permission trying to inject [content scripts](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Content_scripts) into web pages with {{HTMLElement("iframe", "frames")}}. When the {{webextAPIref("menus/onClicked", "menus.onClicked")}} event is fired in response to a [context menu](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/user_interface/Context_menu_items) opened inside a frame, the extension receives access to the **top-level frame** of the tab. As a result, the frame specified by the `frameId` field of {{webextAPIref("menus/OnClickData", "menus.OnClickData")}} may be inaccessible for injection of scripts and styles by {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS")}} or by their {{webextAPIref("tabs", "tabs")}} counterparts. Running script in a [cross-origin](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy#cross-origin_network_access) frame may require [host permissions](#host_permissions). Support of special cases like [`data:` URI](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs) or {{DOMxRef("URL.createObjectURL", "Blob")}} frames in respect to content scripts is not uniform across browsers, see the Firefox [bug #1411641 comment 41](https://bugzil.la/1411641#c41) for some details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may encounter limitations with the `activeTab` permission when injecting [content scripts](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Content_scripts) into web pages with {{HTMLElement("iframe", "frames")}}. When the {{webextAPIref("menus/onClicked", "menus.onClicked")}} event is fired in response to a [context menu](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/user_interface/Context_menu_items) opened inside a frame, the extension receives access to the **top-level frame** of the tab. As a result, the frame specified by the `frameId` field of {{webextAPIref("menus/OnClickData", "menus.OnClickData")}} may be inaccessible for injection of scripts and styles by {{webextAPIref("scripting/executeScript", "scripting.executeScript")}} and {{webextAPIref("scripting/insertCSS", "scripting.insertCSS")}} or by their {{webextAPIref("tabs", "tabs")}} counterparts. Running script in a [cross-origin](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy#cross-origin_network_access) frame may require [host permissions](#host_permissions). Support of special cases like [`data:` URI](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs) or {{DOMxRef("URL.createObjectURL", "Blob")}} frames in respect to content scripts is not uniform across browsers, see the Firefox [bug #1411641 comment 41](https://bugzil.la/1411641#c41) for some details.
```

Author: I am sorry, I did not finish edits yesterday. The final part has been moved to the article on content script. I am still in doubts if the remaining part should be moved above into the list describing the privileges. For while I have tried to make it a bit shorter. The updated variant is based on my https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27219#issuecomment-1596986757

Author: I do not mind to revert last change and to take your variant

> **Note:** You can only get access to the tab/data that was there, when the user interaction occurred (e.g. the click). When the active tab navigates away (e.g., due to finishing loading or some other event), the permission does not grant you access to the tab anymore.

> The `acitveTab` permission enables scripting access to the top level tab's page and same origin frames. Running scripts or modifying styles inside [cross-origin](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy#cross-origin_network_access) frames may require additional [host permissions](#host_permissions). Even a listener of the {{webextAPIref("menus/onClicked", "menus.onClicked")}} event may be unable to inject a content script inside the frame where the [context menu](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/user_interface/Context_menu_items) is opened. The intention is to avoid escalation of privileges by creating a frame with arbitrary web page and running some action in its context. Actual limitations are not uniform across browsers however. For example, Firefox blocks access to frames created by page scripts, but for Manifest V2 add-ons it allows to run context scripts in static cross-origin frames. Of course, [restrictions and limitations](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Content_scripts#permissions-restrictions-and-limitations) related to particular sites and URI schemes are applied as well.

Author: @Rob--W, I may try to move this paragraph to make it a part of the list item above. It would be easy to revert such change.
